Each use case is in it's own file and contains information in the below format:

Writing Effective Use-Cases, A. Cockburn, Addison Wesley 2001

Applying Use-Cases (2nd ed), G. Schneider and J. Winters, Addison Wesley, 2001

www.rational.com has a couple white papers on use-cases on line.



Use-Cases are scenarios about how external actors interact with the system.

Anything outside the control of the system, a person or another system,

   is a actor.

Use-Cases do not expose interfaces between internal components in the system,

   There are other (Work-Flow) methodologies for those specifications.

They are used as part of defining the "requirements" for a project.

Use-Cases evolve over time, adding more details as the project evolves.

They also help in working out:

   Formal validation for the system.

   The Testing plan.

   Acceptance Criteria.

There are CASE tools for specification of Use-Cases visually. Rational 

   (Rose} and UML have adopted Use-Cases as part of their formal 

   system development process.



Use-Case Template: (from Pressman)



Use-case:        <use-case name>, Entering a new party.

Primary Actor:   <actor name>, Sales Manager.

Goal in context: Entering a new party into the data base.

Preconditions:   All information about the party is known.

Trigger:         A new party has been arranged.

Scenario:         <steps the actor takes>

                 1) Manager starts program

                 2) Manager enters password

                 3) Manager selects "new party"

                 4) Manager enters data for new party

                 5) Manager saves party

                 5) Manager exits program

Exceptions:

                 1) program is already running, data base is open ...

                 2) party name already exits

                 2) password wrong

                 3) date fields wrong

                 4) Manager exits program with out a SAVE or CANCEL

Priorities:

                 Essential, must be implemented

When Available:

                 First Prototype Version

Frequency of Use:

                 1 time a week (assuming one party a week is scheduled)

Channel to Actor:

                 Via Control Pannel Interface

Secondary Actors:

                 Support technician

Channels to Secondary Actors:

                 Via Internet

Open Issues:

                 ...

